Well, welcome to the Get Fit with Jodell podcast and grab your pen and paper and get ready
to take notes and learn from one of the greats because Dr. Raymond Peat is back again answering
your questions and mine today because I have questions today. So if you're not familiar
with Dr. Peat, he's been on the show several times and we all love him. We love to learn
from him. You can find out more by visiting raypeat.com. That's R-A-Y-P-E-A-T and I highly
recommend checking out his articles, his blog, and also his newsletter. So you can get that
by emailing raypeatsnewsletter@gmail.com. And so I'll have that in the show notes for you
guys to check out if you haven't already done so. We're going to be talking about his newsletter
that just came out last night. As soon as I got it in my email, I was like immediately
reading through it. Best newsletter so far that I've read of Dr. Peat. So we're going
to touch on that today because it blew my hair back. So I'm so excited Dr. Peat to have
you on. Thank you for coming back on the show. Okay, very good. Thank you. So yeah, I've got
quite a few listener questions as well. And I've got my own questions today based on the
newsletter and just some things going on. So I'm excited to get started. As you guys know,
I've been banned from YouTube. So this is only available on audio. So be sure to share this
with someone you know, that's going to benefit from it. They're not going to find it on YouTube
right now. They're only going to find it on podcast players. So be sure to share and if you
guys have more questions for Dr. Peat, I can't post like I was on YouTube and ask for questions.
So if you hear this podcast and your question wasn't answered, just email me at get fit with
Jodell@gmail.com and I'll be sure to get it in the queue for the next podcast. So let's start right
off because Dr. Peat, your newsletter was like I said, one of my favorites. I lost my mom to cancer
at 17. And what I do today is because of what I didn't understand about her health and how to help
her because I was so young and she did all the mainstream cancer killing therapies. And after
watching her go through chemo, surgery, radiation, more chemo, then finally out of desperation,
alternative treatments out of Mexico that didn't work when her because her body was too wrecked
from the cancer killing therapies. I'm convinced that it was the therapies that killed her,
not the cancer. And so when I read your latest newsletter, the carcinogen metabolism that it
just it was just phenomenal. Like one thing that you said in the newsletter really jumped out at me.
There are many substances that can inhibit the inflammatory degenerative processes acting at
multiple levels. And these substances tend to be synergistic so that a great number of substances
can be safely used at the same time. This kind of supportive therapy has nothing in common with the
ruling paradigm of cancer treatment. It is reinforcing the organism state of health rather
than attacking the disease of cancer. That's what I want to help people do is reinforce their state
of health rather than attacking the disease of cancer. That's what I want people listening
to this today to take home is that there's a lot of therapies out there that are traditional
mainstream. But there's also a lot of adjunct therapies that are synergistic and at least
could support our organism and our host immune system while they're undergoing these treatments.
It's not to say that people can't undergo radiation and chemo and things like that. But
I think I agreed with you that they're attacking the disease of cancer rather than reinforcing the
organism state of health, which should be what's most important. So I just really like that. Yeah,
go ahead. Their basic mistake, mainstream medicine now for about a hundred years has
been committed to the idea that cancer by mutation is something alien to the human being.
But the mutations are the attempt to survive and remain part of the human organism. They are
our cells that are struggling. And if you focus on killing these cells that are already very
weak and damaged, you forget that what kills them kills or injures the rest of the human cells.
They are so similar. It's kind of like trying to, it's more possible to kill an invasive fungus,
but still things that kill fungus or amoebas, for example, are always harmful to the human host.
If you look at the very few people who have studied untreated cancer patients,
starting as far as I know in the 1950s with the University of California Professor
Hardin Jones, he looked at people who for some reason refused treatment after being diagnosed.
And these people almost always lived longer than the thoroughly treated people,
the people who rejected treatment. And since those aren't taken into account,
everyone who is diagnosed with cancer essentially gets the killing treatment.
And if you really did a control, you would compare the absence of treatment to a particular
treatment. But I've read through many volumes of the Cancer Research Journal. And invariably,
they fail to take into account the possibility that the treatment ever kills anyone.
Hundreds and hundreds of articles absolutely insist that everyone who dies from cancer,
they don't even consider the possibility that the treatments increase their death.
Absolutely. Yeah, I mean, you're, like you mentioned, it's about reinforcing health,
how can you reinforce the state of health and the organism, if you're attacking both the good
and the bad cells with some sort of therapy, it just doesn't make sense. And there's a big debate
about out there about taking supplements when undergoing cancer treatment. But my job as a
nutritionist to support is to support that host immune system and reinforce the state of health.
And so there's this debate that you can't take antioxidants during a radiation therapy or
during a chemo treatment. And I can see both sides, I can see how, yeah, the supplement,
depending on which one it is, could interfere with the oxidant support of the cell or the
antioxidant capability that you're trying to kill off with the radiation or whatever.
But at the same time, what about all the good, like you've got this one little area that's
cancerous, but you've got the 90% of you that's really good. Shouldn't we support that? And
shouldn't we come at it from a standpoint of helping rather than harming?
Yeah. And the treatment industry has covered up the fact that there is no such thing as a local,
purely local cancer treatment. For example, the focusing radiation beam, they say if we aim it at
the cancer, the rest of your body isn't effective. But experiments show that, for example, they
noticed that exposing mice to x-rays caused them to go into heat, preparing the mate. And
the explanation was that they had excited their pituitary. So someone did the proper control
and radiated their feet and found that that caused them to go into heat.
And the same with any very serious damage to any part of the body. It spreads
signals of the damage to all parts of the body. So that in Seattle, there was this idea of
pregnant women who had a full set of dental x-rays, even though they shielded their abdomen,
their babies were born under weight. And the stress damage signals affected every part of
the body just from supposedly exposing the head and jaw to x-rays.
Yeah, no, that makes that's, you know, you don't hear about this stuff. All you hear about is like
the different doctors saying, "This is the only path and we only have this. This is our approach.
It's like kill, kill, kill." And there's so many other avenues. Like I loved in your newsletter,
where you were mentioning things like mTOR and things that could inhibit mTOR include caffeine
and aspirin and lidocaine and vitamin D and flavonoids. Like, can you briefly fill us in
layman's terms, like how does mTOR work within some sort of like inhibitory action with cancer
and why these things are important? Yeah, mTOR is phosphorylating, activating enzyme.
And this particular enzyme activates all of the growth processes. So for normal growth,
it's always acting, but all of the growth promoting factors have to know when to stop.
And if you have stress going on, circulating lactic acid, for example, from any kind of
systemic stress, lactic acid is enough to keep the mTOR activating growth processes
without the appropriate need for it. And so lactic acid is carcinogenic by
not allowing the body to turn off growth when it should. And it turns out that stressed tissues
produce lactic acid. So you get a vicious circle. Yeah. And there are like you, I appreciated that
in your newsletter, you did mention, I mean, there are some of the flavonoids known as antioxidants,
like absorbic acid and things like that, that they can become an issue, like reducing agents
for stuff like radiation and stuff like that. So are there certain supplements that people
can do if they've been diagnosed and they're undergoing these treatments,
they choose to go that route. And are there different ones they shouldn't do?
Yeah, in the right amount, the antioxidants will actually be beneficial. But when they get inside
the cell, a typical antioxidant like ascorbic acid or some of the flavonoids like fisetin
are no longer reducing agents, they no longer are known by donating electrons,
but they become oxidizing agents and keep the cell from having an excess of electrons.
And one of the most basic features of cancer is that they have an excess of electrons.
The presence of lactic acid in the system, for example, means that your cells have an excess
of electrons. If you simply shut off the oxygen supply, you'll shift over to lactic acid production
because electrons become excessive and will turn pyruvic acid into lactic acid
with all of the cell activating effects. And so some very, very well informed
leading biological thinkers are still confused on the issue. They still think that
more electrons will be good for cancer patients. But in fact, the failure to oxidize, meaning that
your cells have too many electrons, that's the essence of cancer. And the increase of
lactic acid is a universal feature of cancer. Okay. Yeah, and so it's best to get flavonoids
from food. I love that you said that in your newsletter. Are there certain ones? Let's say
someone listening to this has been diagnosed with cancer and they're undergoing, maybe they've
chosen to go these therapies such as radiation or chemo. Where would you steer them? What
protocol or suggestions would you give them to help them reinforce their state of health rather
than just do the attack? The reason doctors advise against using some supplements like vitamin E
is that they are wanting to create free radical oxidation, which always results from an
excess of electrons activating catalytic iron, for example, to create free radicals.
I knew someone who was taking protective substances and the doctor prescribed
the standard course of chemotherapy and said it would be no more than, I think it was three doses
of it. Absolutely three doses was all that would be needed. But after three doses, he said, "Well,
we need another three doses." And after that three doses, he said, "Well, you need another three
doses." And she said, "I finally got him to admit that he had previously said only three would be
needed." And he explained that your hair hasn't fallen out and you're not anemic.
And those were the judges, the basis for judging. You have to radically harm the whole organism
before you're satisfied that the chemotherapy is working. She ended up looking for a thermal
therapy hypothermia to treat the cancer, which there's a lot of research showing that getting
the body temperature up to just a little above 41 degrees Celsius will kill cancer cells without
harming healthy cells if you keep feeding the person so they don't get hypoglycemia damage.
But she went to a place to advertise hypothermia, but the government required
that they give a minimal dose, they said, of x-rays along with the hypothermia.
And after a couple of doses of the treatment, I got her to inquire how they were judging
that she had reached a hypothermic state. And they told her, "Oh, the computer does that.
No thermometers involved, just absolute mystical computer knowledge." And then she asked, "How
many rads was she getting?" And I think it was 800 rads to her whole pelvis, which included the
intestine. And she was getting classical radiation sickness, which sets in around a whole body dose
of about 400 or 500 rads. So she had had about three times the dose that causes radiation sickness.
And very quickly after that died from radiation sickness, not from cancer.
Yeah, it's like logic has gone by the wayside when it comes to our medical
system. It's just a sad approach because I think there are protocols and suggestions that people
can do to reinforce. So like in your newsletter, Progesterone, and you mentioned vitamin D,
can you talk about that? Yeah, both of those systemically lower inflammation. So they're
just as good for treating COVID as for cancer or psychiatric diseases or a cold.
Because what they do is turn the body towards healthy energy production through oxygen.
And by reducing the inflammation, they are letting the body restore itself.
Wonderful. Now, go ahead.
Antihistamines are another pretty safe way to do that. And in a previous newsletter,
I reviewed some of the articles showing the benefits of exercise. And they found the good
things about exercise that help you maintain good muscles, good hormone balance, all kinds of good
health points. They found that only when the exercise was sufficient to raise your body
temperature did it produce that anti-inflammatory restorative effect. And if they raise the body
temperature to that point, the same temperature that adequate exercise produces, they got just as
much anti-inflammatory effect. So it's the body temperature falling below normal. That is a basic
activator of inflammation. And all of the major carcinogens by reducing oxygen metabolism lower
the body temperature and so necessarily result in systemic inflammation.
So important to keep that thyroid working and keep that body temperature
where it should be in cancer prevention then that sounds like. So going back to the vitamin D,
I kind of had something I wanted to really bring up because there's controversy out there. A lot
of people are not on the bandwagon of vitamin D supplementation. They feel like you should just
get it from the sun. But what about these as a nutritionist? I'm seeing people that as much as
I would love them to go outside, they're going out covered up, they're wearing sunscreen, or maybe
they're only going out long enough to walk around the block. So not to mention the fact that there's
published data that now there's nanoparticles being sprayed in our atmosphere that are blocking
the sun's rays. So that leads me to believe that we do need some form of vitamin D supplementation
in certain people that just will not go outside. What are your thoughts on that? I mean, are you
for vitamin D with K2 supplementation, or do you feel like it should just be from the sun?
Ideally, it would be from the sun. But I've talked to people in Saudi Arabia and Latin America.
There's a tremendous, like an epidemic or worse, of vitamin D deficiency in the traditionally Muslim
and Catholic countries. Women in particular, well, the Saudi Arabians, even the men, were
pretty much total body covers. But the women don't let any skin be exposed to the sunlight.
And so they have a terrible vitamin D deficiency. The same in Mexico. Even the new generations
that aren't following the prudish old cover-up practices, they have dark skin and don't want
to get a darker skin. And so they, just for cosmetic purposes, like to be protected from the sun.
And I used to sunburn terribly from, I guess, my 20s through my 60s. At 7,000 feet altitude,
I could get an intense sunburn in about five minutes of sun exposure. But after I started
supplementing vitamin D, the next time I was in Mexico at over 7,000 feet altitude,
I found that I didn't sunburn at all. I could work outside for hours without turning bright red.
And I've heard other people say that when they take vitamin D, they can then expose themselves
to the sun without burning or even just a moderate degree of tanning. So if you are avoiding the
sunlight for some reason, then you absolutely need to supplement vitamin D. It turns on all of the
protective anti-inflammatory processes. I agree. I mean, I would love, like you said, ideally,
I would love all of my clients to spend as much time outside as they can, but it's just, it seems
like I can't get people to do that. So the next best thing is like I find a good quality vitamin D
to get them on. And yeah, like you said, myself included, I don't burn. Also, I think that's due
to low PUFAs. I have found that eliminating PUFAs a long time ago, I don't burn. And I think that
has a lot to do with the body's inflammatory response with the sun too, would you say?
Yeah, polyunsaturated fatty acids acts as an antenna. Ultraviolet light excites those molecules,
causes them to have excitatory, excited electrons that then spread inflammation to other
less sensitive substances. So they're like the antenna to spread ultraviolet damage. If you have
a rabbit experiment years ago, they shaved rabbits and exposed them to ultraviolet,
similar to sunlight. And the ones, the rabbits that had a PUFA free diet didn't get wrinkly skin.
The ones on a high polyunsaturated fatty acid diet got very wrinkled after exposing
their skin to sun to radiation, ultraviolet. Nice. Yeah, I know that. Yeah. Go ahead. What
were you going to say? Just that there are several things that will sensitize you with
bad diet, high in PUFA is one of the most age promoting factors. Absolutely. Yeah.
So I wanted to ask one more thing before we jump into questions, because in your newsletter,
there was something that stuck out to me that I kind of just briefly touched on, but I wanted
to get your thoughts on it. So you had mentioned that although the great majority of cancers have
clear environmental causes, the carcinogenic pollution caused by governments and large
corporations has ignored. And so it's like putting the blame on the defective genes of the victim.
So I wanted to talk about the pollution caused by governments. Now I had mentioned that I am
seeing data on the fact that there is grid patterns in our sky. There's these clouds that make an X,
there's lines in the sky that they're clearly spraying something into our atmosphere. There's
published data on it. Do you think that this is something we need to be concerned about,
that whatever the nanoparticles that they're spraying are dimming our sun's rays? And is this
part of that heavy metal pollution we're exposed to, depending on what they're spraying?
That has been planned research for a long time. Bill Gates was one of the promoters of it. And
when the public heard about it, they said, "Oh, it's just research. We don't really plan to
go ahead with that." But I don't believe them. I'm sure they're continually working on it.
Yeah, I want people to be aware. I want you guys to start looking up and just doing your own
research because I think they've got us programmed to look down at our phones so we don't see what's
going on in our skies. But I highly recommend checking out geoengineeringwatch.org because
there's a lot of published data there. And it's not conspiracy because there's research on it.
So just be aware, there's changes in our sky that are affecting our health too. And I believe some
of that heavy metal nanoparticles could be part of that carcinogenic pollution that you're talking
about too. And one source of pollution that is often forgotten or covered up is that the Pentagon
is the world's biggest single source of pollution. That they can dump anything they want to,
and they've killed and injured many military people. The Gulf War Syndrome was just part of it,
but burning toxic agents in open dumps when a war is going on, the soldiers are being horribly
exposed to these toxins. Wow. Yeah, I'm glad you brought that up. I'm going to look into that too
because I wasn't even aware of that. Well, I think we will jump into questions here because I could
talk to you about this stuff all day, but I know everybody wants me to get to their questions. So
Kylie is our first one on the list today. She's kind of explaining that she has low TSH,
free T3 is low, free T4 is low. She's tried SITML and NDT, but immediately she lost her period. It
took her five months to get her period back while on SITML, but she was still hyper symptomatic,
so she stopped it. She's had thyroid issues her whole life, so she's wondering if it was
her nervous system that needed to adjust. Should she have stayed on it or is there something else
you should do, Dr. Peat? It's important to know that the function of T3 partly is to
improve oxidation, that your liver needs to maintain the continuous activation of the thyroid
and to make your liver able to detoxify hormones that are in excess. And so you can, if you have
heavy menstruation or continuous hemorrhaging, you can turn it off quickly by increasing
your T3 intake. But normally the body produces only probably a maximum of two or three micrograms
per hour of T3 by its own conversion from thyroxine. And people often, the worst thing
is to start out taking maybe your whole day's dose all at once on an empty stomach before breakfast.
And that for sure will give you the message, boost your liver, that you have a gigantic excess
of thyroid. And so you activate the liver to get rid of the excess thyroid. And that means that
after doing that for a while, just a couple of weeks, there's enough to see it happening.
Your liver, in just 12 hours after you've taken that one morning dose, your liver will create
extreme hypothyroidism because it has learned to get rid of the excess. But then
when you don't keep adding it, your liver pushes you to a very low level.
That's one of the reasons a mixed product like a natural desiccated thyroid, a product like
Armour Thyroid USP, for example, has a reasonable balance, the same balance that you would normally
produce with your own thyroid. Or a synthetic such as Cenoplus or Novotrirol are about four or five
parts of thyroxine to each part of T3. So the T3 can activate your processes. And the T4 is
available to continue to keep up your T3 level without at any time forcing you into the
hypothyroid state that you get when you take even 10 micrograms of cytomel at once. It will
give you the signal of excess that will lead to reduced thyroid function.
Yeah, and she didn't specify how much she was taking. So that's another thing. Maybe she
started with too high of a dose. And then also, since the NDT is going to have some T3 in there
along with the cytomel, maybe it was just too much for her. And she should just look at starting
with a really low five micrograms of the cytomel or something. What do you think about that?
Yeah, five micrograms with a meal is okay. It's more than you would want on an empty stomach,
but the meal slows its absorption over a period of about two or three hours.
And it's very important to check things like your temperature, pulse rate,
blood pressure, and so on, and to not expect things to be normal immediately.
Watch for changes to gradually increase over a period of two weeks or more.
And many people want to see quick results, and that leads up to getting very disturbed
ups and downs of the metabolic rate. It makes it very hard to find the right level. So traditionally,
people who had really studied thyroid function, like Bruno Barnes, would take
several months usually to determine what their correct dose was. And the correct dose varies
typically fourfold just by seasonal changes in day length.
I found that in the winter, I needed two grains of armored thyroid to maintain my
temperature and heart rate. And that gradually, starting in the spring, decreased to half a grain
per day to maintain the same level of function and metabolic rate.
Nice. Yeah, that's it. I like that you mentioned the part about her taking it with a meal,
because I think there is a misconception out there. My most thyroid medications are
told to take on an empty stomach right when you wake up 20 to 30 minutes before eating.
And I like that what you're saying is they really need to take it with food. I've always
thought that that that would be more efficient, slowing down how quickly it's absorbed. And so
that makes a lot more sense than on an empty stomach. I've heard practically all pharmacists
and doctors give that, take it on an empty stomach in the morning recommendation.
But I tried to find out what their reasoning was. There is no reasoning. And they based their
thought on how do you get efficient absorption. They went to think about not wasting any of the
thyroid. So you do get the full amount that you consumed if your stomach is empty. It shows up
in your bloodstream right away. But the thyroid never works that way naturally. It seeps out as
you need it. So if you have enough food to keep your blood sugar up and your stress hormones low,
your body will continue to convert thyroxine to T3 exactly the right amount. But it is a
continuous moment by moment process. Absolutely without any biological sense to recommend
taking your day's dose on an empty stomach. Okay, so next question, Zed asked, okay,
this is kind of a long question here. So Dr. Peat was asked in the past if he believes one can regrow
hair back to their juvenile hairline. He replied that it may not be possible. I would love to know
if someone was willing to dedicate all of their time to this. This is a cool guy. What further
steps could be taken after addressing TSH, temperature, vitamin D, and calcium. For example,
microneedling, scalp massage, or even, you know, hanging upside down, maybe a high dose of vitamin
K to decalcify the scalp, anything that he thinks could help. Thank you so much.
Scalp massage definitely helps hair loss from a variety of causes.
Even alopecia ariata can be helped by massage. Even though that's an autoimmune
spotty loss of hair, the massage helps to normalize getting the cell energy back up.
But I've never known any single individual who wanted to put in the necessary time.
Really could involve basically everything you do, but it isn't benefiting only your scalp because
you've probably heard of the ear lobe crease. People who are bald have a very high incidence
of a crease across their earlobe. That crease happens to be an indicator of susceptibility
to heart disease. There's a known association between circulatory system health and good hair
growth. So the things that help to restore the health of your follicles are also helping
every other part of your body. I love that. I think it goes back to like grandma's logic of
like brush your hair a hundred times because people, I think they're afraid when you're losing
your hair, you're kind of afraid to brush your hair because you think you're just going to brush
it and pull it out. But just brushing your hair like a scalp massage or there's a company that
makes a derma tool for your head where you just kind of like stimulate the scalp, I think those
are going to be more beneficial because what you're doing is you're drawing blood to that area,
increasing circulation. So like brushing your hair, you might lose some hairs the first few
times you do it, but then you're going to start stimulating that blood flow and hopefully
improving the hairline as well. Yeah. Yeah. And putting your fingers on your scalp
without moving them against the skin, but wiggling your fingers so that you're moving the skin around
that kind of 15 minutes per day of that amount of massage can
very significantly improve hair growth.
Getting your temperature, getting your temperature up to normal, I think is a big part of it.
I looked at the normal range of temperatures in the brain and it happens that the highest
temperatures are towards the middle and rear of the brain and that for best functioning, the
highest part of the brain, the spindle lobes of the cortex have to be slightly cooler
than the central part of the brain. They have to be able to be quiet rather than overactive and
the hair cover at the top and back of your head is helping to insulate your head so that you don't
lose a temperature so easily where you have heavy hair growth. But the fact that hair doesn't grow
on the forehead is probably associated with the fact that your frontal lobes should be cooler.
And so your forehead is like a radiator that helps to maintain that gradient of
temperature inside your brain optimizing your prefrontal cortex functions.
Well, I really love that my brain is really warm right now because you make me think so much. So
like just listening to you share that your knowledge like makes my brain like feel warmer.
So that's cool. Okay, so Zed had one more question in his email. He said,
"When my heart rate increases after exercise gets a little strenuous, the inside of my nose
becomes very cold and painful to breathe through and almost closes up. Does Dr. Peat know what
could cause this and how to avoid it?" Yeah, that's too much adrenaline. I used to notice it if I was
in a study project, for example, and went too long drinking coffee. I would get that sensation but
my nose membranes dried out and cooled and my sinuses extended that feeling of
too much air in contact with them. I think it's that the high adrenaline simply reduces circulation
to your nose and sinus membranes. Sounds like maybe his exercise
may be not as strenuous, maybe just moving your body without getting too much adrenaline going, yeah.
Not doing things that raise your heart rate too much but the kind of muscle exercise that
heats up your muscles and then they heat your whole body and increase the temperature.
So lifting weights or using dumbbells enough to warm up your muscles, raise your body temperature
won't necessarily make you breathe any harder. Yeah, excellent. I love that. Okay, so I can't
pronounce this name but this it starts with a K and it says, "What are Dr. Peat's thoughts
on high-dose vitamin E? Is it safe to take up to 3,000 IUs per day?" Thank you.
There have been tests and it was right around 3,000 or 4,000 units a day that would cause
vitamin E to produce diarrhea. It was simply a physical overload that probably irritated the
intestine and they found that you couldn't absorb above a certain limit that produced diarrhea
was useless but they didn't see any damage from doses up to that point. But you have to remember
that the products they call vitamin E has changed pretty continuously through technology
in the 20s and 30s when it was known as a fertility of vitamin. That's where the name came from,
Tocal Feral Offspring Burying. And so a deficiency was defined as the sterility level and that worked
because vitamin E protects against estrogen. Estrogen is the anti progesterone, anti-fertility
agent. And so progesterone and vitamin E were found in the late 1930s to be working together
to protect against estrogen and so to improve fertility and the side effect of many other
changes. But at that point, for various reasons, the estrogen industry didn't want vitamin E to be
known as a pro-fertility anti-estrogen chemical so they promoted the idea that it's nothing but
an antioxidant. And so for years, vitamin E was defined as its antioxidant potency
which corresponded to the D-alpha tocopherol concentration. And the total vitamin E
effect was considered only the antioxidant potency. And for a time, the vitamin E value was
defined as the D-alpha tocopherol content. Now it has changed again and so they
specified the proportion of all of the isomers of vitamin E. And the definition has changed
along with it the way they prepare the vitamin. And so the way it's prepared is extremely different.
For example, the octocosinol portion used to be an extra part of the function. And now that is
removed, changing the consistency of the vitamin E and also apparently reducing its biological
values. So that starting 20 or 30 years ago, there has been a campaign to warn people about
the potential dangers of high intake of vitamin E. And since the benefits were
established with different products and different definitions about 60 or 70 years ago,
we don't really have any good research evaluating what's going on with present
products of vitamin E. So I think it's best to be very cautious with your dosing.
Very good. Okay, so doposeva, or dapposeva maybe is the name, asks about blackstrap
molasses unsulphured. Is it a good source of carbs, potassium and minerals? Thanks a million.
Years ago, I noticed that it had sort of a smoky taste, and so I investigated how it's made.
And when you put your crude cane juice through the crystallization process,
the brown stuff gradually, it doesn't crystallize. And so as you crystallize the
pure sucrose molecules, you're separating a gummy brown substance. And it turns out that the
standard way to make sugar is to burn the cane fields and then to cut down the bare stalks
and grind that up to make your cane juice. And if you burn the cane before you extract the sugar,
you're going to get a lot of smoky material mixed in with the various nutrients that produce the
brown stuff. And so heat overexposure to heat will also cause the amino acids in the natural cane
juice to react with the glucose in the juice. That produces toxic brown material. And so the
brownness at least reflects the heat breakdown in products involving amino acids. And probably
most often involves some smoke resulting from burning the cane. So the fact that a lot of people
have an allergy-like reaction to BoxFib, I think, could steer people away from it.
Okay, good to know. All right, these last couple of questions here we'll take and then we'll save
the rest for next time since we're running short on time here. But these last questions are related.
They're both asthma questions. So Constantine asks, "Hi, Dr. Peat, I'm a 23-year-old male,
and I've had bad asthma since I was 2. My asthma is serious enough that I need to use some type
of inhaler daily. When it's very bad, I use an inhaled corticosteroid. And when it's more
manageable, I use a rescue inhaler that is androgenic agonist. I know these are both harmful
drugs to use daily, so I would very much like to get off of them. I've been experimenting with
superheptadine, pregnenolone, and progesterone as alternatives, but none have been able to
prevent me from needing my asthma inhaler. Do you have any ideas on what I can do to get off the
inhaler or alternatively on what I can do to mitigate the harm done by using the inhalers?"
Checking your foods, a very careful elimination diet can usually identify foods that make the
symptoms worse. By stimulating different parts of the intestine, researchers have found that
you can produce all sorts of psychosomatic conditions. Everything from asthma to migraines
to epilepsy can be provoked by irritating certain parts of the intestine. And so constipation,
diarrhea of some types, and anything that tends to cause pressure or irritation in the lower
intestine is a major cause of asthma. And so looking for foods that are hard to digest,
you can often get a good diet by eliminating certain foods. For example, green salads, lettuce,
or spinach leaves aren't cooked, are extremely irritating to the intestine, promote bacterial
growth, endotoxin production, as well as just direct irritation from the nature of the leaf.
Sometimes simply eliminating salads and undercooked vegetables will do it.
The right kind of fiber will sometimes solve the whole problem by getting food to move through
you faster before it can reach that degree of pressure and irritation.
That's so interesting. Yeah, I would definitely second that. The gut is always a good place to
go in dealing with anything that's causing a reaction in the body, as well as how about
balancing blood sugar? Do you think that would matter if he's going the long stretch of time
without eating? Would balancing his blood sugar, would that help the body calm down too?
Exactly. Both the chemical irritants and the mechanical irritants are
ineffective if you have high blood sugar or adequate blood sugar. But for example,
if you have an inflatable balloon in the animal's intestine and the animal has good blood sugar,
if you blow up the balloon, nothing happens. But if its blood sugar is a little on the low side,
you blow up the balloon, you can produce instant asthma symptoms because the autonomic nervous
system is destabilized by low sugar. Same with allergens. Low blood sugar makes you allergic
to more things. Yeah, I would agree with that too. Ruth also asked a question on asthma. She said,
"What are Dr. Peat's views on the use of those inhalers? Her sleep is interrupted by hot flashes
throughout the night as well. What are your views on inhalers and why her sleep is interrupted by hot
flashes?" What is interrupted by the hot flashes? Yeah, her sleep is interrupted by hot flashes
throughout the night. Yeah, progesterone by maintaining your body temperature and oxygen
used during the night will improve the depth and restfulness of your sleep. If your progesterone
is low and usually if your thyroid is low, your blood sugar is unstable, falls too low
during the night and will trigger all kinds of symptoms, hot flashes, night sweats,
nocturnal asthma and nocturnal epilepsy are very well known consequences of the falling blood sugar
during the night. Painful things become more painful at night because of falling blood sugar.
Yeah, for sure. Yeah, definitely the progesterone can help with hot flashes just in general in the
night. So there was something else that you said that made me want to, what were you going to say?
Experimenters have used something like a cup full of cornstarch as a way to
give pure carbohydrate at bedtime in five pounds. But even though that was not good in nutrition,
it would prevent the hot flashes by giving you a constant supply of glucose during the night.
That's so interesting. Like I've had myself included, people mentioned that corn in general,
it seems like they sleep better when they have corn for dinner. Do you have any thoughts on this?
Because I don't really love corn for the fact of it does. It seems to be a food that can elevate
blood sugar sometimes too high in certain people. But you know, I'm hearing that it actually can
help with sleep. Would you have any reason why? Yeah, it doesn't have, for example, gluten.
If they're eating corn, they might stop eating so much wheat and gluten. And especially if the
corn is in the form of tortillas or lime processed corn, that becomes very anti-inflammatory.
Just having some oat bran, oatmeal or oat bran mush at bedtime,
those are often very protective, keeping your blood sugar up. That's so interesting. Yeah,
I don't have corn very often. But I find that if I have it for dinner, like you mentioned,
like homemade corn tortillas or something, it's like my sleep is just phenomenal. So
I find that interesting. Okay, that's all we have for today, because we'll wrap up here and we'll
save the rest for next time. But Dr. Peat, this is always so enlightening and educational. And
I love hearing your views on so many different topics. So we'll get to more questions next time.
But you guys check out his newsletter. That's raypeatsnewsletter@gmail.com. If you miss
this one, if you haven't signed up yet, I highly recommend going ahead and ordering it and maybe
just shoot him an email. And I bet they'll send that one to you that they just put out because it
is really excellent. Dr. Peat, that carcinogenic metabolism was really a big eye opener. So thank
you for that. And thank you for being a part of this today. Okay, thank you. Okay, bye for now.
We'll talk soon. Hey guys, are you in the Midwest? Are you in the East Coast? Are you in Brazil? Are
you in Asia? It doesn't matter where you are. I would love to work with you as your nutritionist.
And so just to let you know, I offer nutrition consulting worldwide. You can work with me
anywhere. I have clients all over the world and I love to spend time over the internet with each one
of them, figuring out their specific needs. So your specific needs. What deficiencies are you
having? What symptoms are you dealing with daily that we can address for you? So that's what I,
as a nutrition detective, like to get to the bottom up. I ask you a ton of questions. We meet
over Zoom or over FaceTime, whatever is convenient for you. And we discuss all of your specific needs.
If you would like to work with me, just shoot me an email, getfitwithjodell@gmail.com. That's
getfit, G-E-T-F-I-T-W-I-T-H-J-O-D-E-L-L-E@gmail.com. And let's set up a 15 minute free call for you
just to see if I'm a good fit for you as a nutrition therapy practitioner. Again,
email me getfitwithjodell@gmail.com and let's get you set up feeling better. Lose that unwanted
weight that you have going on. Lose those symptoms that you have hanging around and optimize your
health as best we can. So a common question I get is what are some of my favorite supplements that
I take daily? Well, here are my faves. Just to name a few, I love a good magnesium glycinate for stress
and sleep. I love a good multi-mineral to make sure I have all the raw materials for my thyroid
and my metabolic processes. I like BCAAs, branched chain amino acids, when I can't get to adequate
protein in the midst of a busy day. And I never go a day without my vitamin D3 and K2 drops under my
tongue. Supplements can be pricey and in a perfect world, wouldn't it be nice to have a healthcare
practitioner assign your specific supplement needs to you and find the one bio-individual
supplement needs that match your body? Well, that's where Fullscript comes in, my online
supplement dispensary. Fullscript is where I can recommend the perfect supplements for you
when we consult. But also, if we don't consult, you can simply go to my Fullscript online dispensary
and find all of your favorite supplements at 15 to 20% off what you would normally pay in the store.
So Fullscript has lots of my favorite brands like Quicksilver Scientific and Nutrisol and
Apex Energetics and so much more, hundreds more in fact, even protein powders, teas, toothpaste,
and natural beauty products. Really great brands that I myself love and recommend. So to try my
Fullscript out for yourself, here's a couple of options. You can, number one, click the link in
the description to visit my Fullscript page or you can enter us.fullscript.com/welcome/jfitswater.
Let me say that again. That's us.fullscript.com/welcome/jfitswater, F-I-T-Z-W-A-T-E-R. Or if that's too
long and lengthy, you can email me at getfitwithjodel@gmail.com and I can set you up with a free
Fullscript account where I can help navigate the right supplements for you. So Fullscript is
discreet with fast shipping that drops right to your doorstep, no more running out to the local
natural health food store when time's just not on your side. The world simply does not offer enough
raw materials naturally anymore to combat the modern stressors and that's why finding the right
supplements that work can and will help you. Try my Fullscript today, save money, and start feeling
better. I'm a simpleton, really, but I will say when it comes to skincare and hair care that there
are a couple products that I can say have really moved the needle for my skin and hair and also
are easy to use. They smell fantastic and they're all natural and that is Ann Marie Gianni skincare
and hair care. Ann Marie Gianni is a wild-crafted herb-based skincare line and recently they've
launched a new shampoo and conditioner line which is phenomenal. My hair has never felt better.
So if you're looking for really great wild-crafted herbal-based skincare, I can't say enough about
Ann Marie Gianni. I love their charcoal mask and their pearl illuminating mask. I'm a sucker for
masks whenever I just want to feel like I'm having a spa day and giving myself some vitamin P,
right? And so this is something you can get really inexpensive. They've got a nice little
trial kit you can pick up for as little as $19.99 and it comes with a slew of little tiny travel
toiletries you can take with you from their cleanser to their anti-aging serum to the little
masks. I love them and by the way you can also purchase small amounts of their shampoo and
conditioner to give it a try before you buy the big ones. So check out Ann Marie Gianni skincare.
I've got a link in the show notes below and get this special trial offer that's only good
for a limited amount of time. Try my favorite skincare. I think it'll become your favorite skincare too.